#Format is q;question type;question;answer;value;followupquestionid
T;Brush.io Case Study
I: Brush.io wants to develop the next generation of smart toothbrushes. Using a Bluetooth-connected toothbrush, consumers can track and record their toothbrush habits, helping them reach brighter, cleaner smiles, and potentially saving them money on dental fees and insurance.  We are seeking $1 million in venture funding to help us reach our goals.
#Any line with a # start is a commented out line

V;1;N;IMP; One might notice very quickly that there are no trained mechanical engineers in the core team. VCs like to see talented entrepreneurs, but also a well-rounded team with complementary skills.  A better answer would also demonstrates that the team is comprised of passionate, go-getter types of good character that often make successful entrepreneurs.
V;2;N;VIM; This is a poor answer to this question.  Experience starting companies or learning the entrepreneurial process is not compelling by itself.  Furthermore, no team members have any experience working in healthcare or electronics products, let alone this particular space.  A team led by someone previously a key designer or contributor toward electronic toothbrushes at a large competitor (like Philips-Sonicare), or building quant-self products (like Fitbit, Withings, or Nike), would be more compelling.  Furthermore, there are no existing strategic partnership connections mentioned at all for manufacturing, distribution, or point-of-sale, which would be crucial to success.
V;3;X;IRR;
V;4;X;IRR;
V;5;X;IRR;
V;6;N;IMP; VCs like to hear that the founding team has some unique ability to execute on an idea, either through connections, know-how, experience, or legal protection.  A burgeoning space is certainly a good market, but doesn’t prevent other young companies, or established manufacturers, from entering this space quickly and <i>taking the cake</i>.  
V;7;P,IMP; The answer shows that there was some research done, and the value proposition does seem to make sense.  However, more probing is necessary to determine if this product can succeed in the marketplace.
V;8;X;IMP; This sounds nice in theory, and would improve the product’s value proposition to prospective customers.  However, it would be nice to see this vetted through at least one insurance company, or backed by data, which prevents us from allowing this tidbit to improve our confidence in making the investment.
V;9;X;IRR;
V;10;X;IRR;
V;11;X;IMP;
V;12;N;IMP; Assuming the company can reach its stated sales goals, the annualized return would certainly warrant venture investment.  However, the methodology here is suspect.  VCs prefer game-changing products that aim to revolutionize a space and capture significant share, far beyond the stated 1%.  A ground-up analysis, starting with per-sale profit and estimating sales growth over the next several years, would be a more compelling way to estimate market potential of this product.
V;13;N;IMP; Every startup has competitors, and in this case, there are many large ones, as it is a long-established space.  Consumers currently buy either manual toothbrushes, or electronic toothbrushes from large brands like Sonicare and Oral-B.  Although Brush.io offers a unique value, it has to compete with these existing products that have very large loyal followings and extensive distribution networks.  Threat of entry into this space from these competitors is also extremely high.
V;14;N;IMP; There is no data or research provided to back this assumption.  Higher-tech will likely only be better if it provides truly unique value or improves the user experience.  We suspect that company reputation, customer service, durability, ease of obtaining replacement parts (such as brush heads), and cost are also very important factors here, and are skeptical that features ultimately drive sales.
V;15;X;IMP;
V;16;X;IRR;
V;17;X;IRR;
V;18;X;IMP; These margins are not incredible, but pretty typical for products like these.  However, we might hope for better margins given the large necessary spend before sales start. Furthermore, a quick calculation that combines these margins with projected sales growth indicates that it might be a while before investors make their money back.
V;19;N;IMP; For a product that is relatively capital-intensive to design and manufacture, we’d expect a more ambitious growth rate from the entrepreneur for this to be a viable investment.  Further details would be helpful.  
V;20;N;IMP; Since a prototype hasn’t even been produced yet, this represents a definite red flag.  It is also fairly costly to prototype and produce before the concept can even be tested.  This is likely because this all has to be outsourced to specialists, as the core team does not have the skills to do it themselves.  Investors prefer a more tested concept that is further along before making an investment of this magnitude, and preferably one that can “fail fast” much more easily and cheaply.  Also, two years to breakeven is a huge risk---investors often hope to receive 5x their investment in just three years, further reducing the viability of this investment.
V;21;X;IMP
V;22;N;IMP; $10M is a rather large investment, and based on the time to breakeven and perceived growth rates, it ultimately may not warrant an investment this large.
V;23;X;IMP;
V;24;X;IMP;
V;25;X;IRR;

Q;1;Te; Please describe the founding team.; Brush.io is led by me, Michael Avery.  I’m a Cornell humanities graduate who worked at Bain for two years, and interned at a web startup called Vlingo. My first cofounder, Doug Servet, is a Rhode Island College senior majoring in business management.  The third member of the team is Susy Redser, a Classics major who has been coding for 18 months, and has already released her first iPhone and Android app. All three cofounders were childhood friends.;2
FQ;2;Te; How is the founding team uniquely capable of executing on this business plan?; All three of us founding members have either entrepreneurial experience or extensive coursework in entrepreneurship.  We’re all extremely intelligent, top students, and have a diverse skillset that covers technical and business disciplines. 
Q;3;Te; How is equity split between the company founders?; I consider myself to be the team leader, which is why I am serving as CEO.  Ultimately, all decisions are made as a team, but my word counts for about as much as my two cofounders.  
Q;4;Te; How many hours/week do the founders plan to commit?; Susy and I both currently spend 100% of our working time on the project.  Doug is still a student for a few more months, and in the interim is working about 30 hours each week.  Upon graduation, he will be joining us in working 60+ hour workweeks exclusively on Brush.io.  
Q;5;Te; Who would you say is your team leader?; I consider myself to be the team leader, which is why I am serving as CEO.  Ultimately, all decisions are made as a team, but my word counts for about as much as my two cofounders.  
Q;6;Id; Why hasn’t someone executed on this idea before?; Well, dental insurance is expensive.  The significant risk to insurers primarily depends upon the oral hygiene of the patient.  Our product keeps detailed logs of brushing habits, including frequency and efficacy.  Insurers can use this data to determine that a patient is at less risk of dental cavities, and thereby extend reduced premiums to this individual.  At this time, we have not spoken with insurance companies to discuss the concept, but it seems to make sense in theory—much in the way the auto insurance industry is doing.
Q;7;Id; What need does your product address?  Why is it a compelling purchase?; : Our focus groups and surveys show that people (and particularly age 15 to 35 people) would be interested to see the data provided by our product, and 78% of those surveyed said they would change their brushing habits according to our software’s recommendations.  Additionally, parents want to ensure that their kids are developing and maintaining healthy brushing habits, and this products allows them to do this without direct oversight, and with much better data.  It could also save money on insurance down the road, allowing the product to pay for itself.;8
FQ;8;Id; Save on insurance?  What do the insurers say?; Well, dental insurance is expensive.  The significant risk to insurers primarily depends upon the oral hygiene of the patient.  Our product keeps detailed logs of brushing habits, including frequency and efficacy.  Insurers can use this data to determine that a patient is at less risk of dental cavities, and thereby extend reduced premiums to this individual.  At this time, we have not spoken with insurance companies to discuss the concept, but it seems to make sense in theory—much in the way the auto insurance industry is doing.
Q;9;Id; What’s the inspiration for the idea?; Last year I purchased a scale from a company called Withings.  Have you heard of it?  Not only does it provide many health data points, it syncs the data with a user’s PC or mobile device over WiFi to keep track of the data over time.  As I was brushing my teeth one day, I felt that I really wanted the same type of data for my oral hygiene.  I did a lot of research, and realized that it didn’t exist yet.
Q;10;Id; What can customers do with the collected data?; The data syncs wirelessly to a PC, Mac, Tablet, or Smartphone.  Users can keep track of the data over time for themselves, or for their whole family.  It can also be compared to data from our entire user community in aggregate, seeing how as user (and his/her family) stack up.  The data can also be shared via social channels like Facebook and Twitter. 
Q;11;Ma; What is the market potential of this product?; We are confident that this product can ultimately amount to more than $250 million in annual sales.;11
FQ;12;Ma; How did you calculate this market potential?;Our analysis shows that annual toothbrush sales annually exceed $2.2 billion in the U.S. alone.  The market is growing at a rate of 9% each year, owed mostly to more expensive and complicated toothbrush devices.  If we capture even 1% of this colossal market, we would sell $22 million to $30 million each year over the next decade.  If we capture 10% of the market in a best-case scenario, annual revenue could exceed one quarter of a billion dollars.
Q;13;Ma; Who are your primary competitors?; There are currently no data-producing toothbrushes on the market, so there are not true competitors for Brush.io.  There are, however, electronic toothbrushes sold by several large manufacturers, including Philips-Sonicare and Oral-B.  Not even the top-end toothbrushes from these manufacturers produce data at all.
Q;14;Ma; What product dimensions drive sales in the toothbrush space?; We believe that toothbrushes with more features are what consumers are looking for.  In this technological age, high-tech toothbrushes and do more, are likely to sell better.  We notice that higher-end toothbrushes from existing manufacturers have more modes and more features, and we believe this trend will continue.  Our toothbrush, with its Bluetooth technology, will position itself as the technology leader in the marketplace.
Q;15;Ma; Please describe your marketing plans to reach customers; We plan to utilize both online and in-store purchases, establishing partnerships with brick-and-mortar retailers and large eTailers to improve the reach of our product.  Our marketing will primarily revolve around digital marketing campaigns in social channels, as well as an intensive video marketing campaign that demonstrates the value of our product.  As advertising permits, we’ll utilize traditional media channels to advertise as well, though we plan to start with what we consider to be higher-ROI investments for us in digital spaces.
Q;16;Ma; Sales distribution of current toothbrush sales?; Currently 78% of all toothbrush sales happen in stores.  Most of these are large retail chains like Wal-Mart and Target.  About 10% are purchased by (or via) dental professionals.  The remaining 12% are purchased online, or directly from company websites.
Q;17;Fi; How much do you believe your company is currently worth?; We believe that given the present investments in the company, as well as its potential, that the company is currently worth $2M in pre-money valuation.
Q;18;Fi; What kind of margins do you expect on the product?; At first, we expect a 9% margin after all expenses.  Eventually, we hope to have our own dedicated manufacturing facility, which after initial setup costs of $2.5 million will net us 21% margin on each toothbrush sold.  
Q;19;Fi; Growth rate over the next five years?; We expect to grow at about 30% per year after we begin selling the product, once prototyping and manufacturing is complete.; 20
FQ;20;Fi; How much do you expect to spend before sales start?  When will you breakeven?; We expect that it will cost about $75k for design and protoyping of the product, which will then allow us to beta test and get market feedback.  We expect it will cost another $150k to set up the contracted manufacturing facility and to produce the initial stock.  We will likely breakeven about 24 months from now, after which we’ll be poised for strong growth.
Q;21;Ex; What are plausible exit strategies for your company?; Eventually, we hope to make an initial public offering (IPO).  We also have identified several companies in both the existing toothbrush manufacturing space, as well as the quant-self space, who might be interesting in purchasing our company if we succeed.
Q;22;Ex; How much funding do you expect to need in total before becoming self-sustaining?; To maximize profit, we’d like to create our own manufacturing facility, which we expect to cost $2.5 million, but will improve margins dramatically.  We expect to need about $10 million in total funding before we can sustain growth on profits alone.  We expect to breakeven in 24 months and to sustain growth on profit alone after 36 months. 
Q;23;Ex; Past funding and current funding situation?; I personally contributed $20k in seek funding toward initial design and research of the product and space.  Another $150k has been secured from an angel investor to contract engineer to build the product prototype, or which half has already been spent on computerized prototypes.  The angel investor took 10% stake in the company for his investment.;23
FQ;24;Ex; How would you plan to spend the $1M investment?; We plan to manufacture one or more prototypes, test them in the market, and then sign a contract to begin manufacturing the final product.  We expect that to finish the prototyping and testing process will cost $75k, and another $150k to actually manufacture the first working batch.  We also plan to aggressively expand our team with two salespeople, a dedicated marketer, and an engineer to oversee the rest of the prototyping process.  Additional manufacturing and hires will exhaust the $1M investment in about 18 months.
Q;25;Ex; How much do the founders plan to take in salary?; We plan to keep our salaries as low as possible to focus on expansion of the company.  We’ll each take as little as $40k each year for the foreseeable future.

