Company: Brush.io 

Vision: Brush.io wants to develop the next generation of smart toothbrushes. Using a bluetooth
connected toothbrush, consumers can track and record their toothbrush habits to helping them
reach brighter, cleaner smiles.

Founding Team

Brush.io is led by Michael Avery, a Cornell humanities graduate who worked at Bain for two years.  The second 
cofounder, Doug Servet, is a Rhode Island College senior majoring in business management. The third member
of the team is Susy Redser, who has been coding for only 18 months, but has already released her first iPhone and
Android app. All three cofounders were childhood friends.

More about Michael Avery

Michael attempted his first startup while still in college. xShirt let people submit ideas for designs
for tshirts and people in the community could vote on them. The company pilot tested a site, but school
work and large academic time commitments ultimately forced xShirt to be shut down.


(Team has no mechanical engineering experience to build toothbrush)

Equity Split

Michael, the CEO, owns 50% of the company as he came up with the concept for Brush.io and agreed
to fund the first $50,000 worth of expenses. Doug and Susy, the other two cofounders, each own 25%.
Susy can only work part time on the project, but her value as a coder warrants a quarter of the
company.


Inspiration

Michael came up with the idea after taking his little brother to the dentist to replace his 4th
cavity. Michael's little brother, James, has an awful habit of forgetting to brush his teeth altogether. Even
when he does brush, it never lasts more than 25-30 seconds (way below the recommended 2 minutes). Michael
asked his dentist if a lot of children have cavities, to which he replied, "half of all kids between 12
and 15 have a cavity!" Michael instantly knew better technology could help solve this problem.


Idea

Product Details?

Brush.io is a toothbrush with several sensors that can record the pressure applied to the teeth, the
region of the mouth you are brushing, and the time brushed. These results are automatically synced to
your smartphone, where you can chart your brushing habits over time and compare to dentist standards.

How far along?

Brush.io has a series of wireframes for the application, and they have recently contacted a mechanical
engineering firm to help build and design the toothbrush. The engineering firm quoted them for upwards of
$100,000 to complete the project, which is why Brush.io is looking to raise additional funding.

Follow-up: Time to develop?
Brush.io estimates the product can be prototyped and tested in 14-16 months.

Why hasn't it been done before?

Toothbrushes with sensors have existed for have a half a decade, but not until recently have children largely
adopted the use of smartphones. The viability of this idea was not possible until children were able to 
record their own brushing habits.

What is the problem?

More than one-fourth of children between ages two and five suffer from tooth decay in the U.S. Better 
brushing habits can dramatically reduce this statistic and keep kids healthier. Brush.io has a solution
to do precisely that.

Market

Who are the competitors?
The only other direct competitor is a startup that recently launched two months ago, that offers a app-connected
toothbrush. However, they focus on the data analytics. Our product is geared towards children and has the
necessary gameification elements to make it addictive.
Followup: Any indirect competitors?
Oral B and Crest both offer a sensor toothbrush that has several lights to indicate a great brushing job. They have
yet to introduce any toothbrush connected to an app though.

Market Size?
Currently, the United States alone spends $2.3 billion dollars on oral care products, and over $800 million on 
toothbrushes alone. If we can get just 1% of that market, we will have revenues in excess of $80 million / year.

Market Share?
Colgate is the leader at 54%, while Dabur is at 14.3%, and HUL is 21%

Retail Method?
To begin, Brush.io wants to sell its product directly online to minimize end user costs. 




