#Format is q;question type;question;answer;value;followupquestionid
T;Brush.io Case Study

#Any line with a # start is a commented out line

Q;1;Fo; Who are the founders?;Brush.io is led by Michael Avery, a Cornell humanities graduate who worked at Bain for two years, and worked on a previous startup xShirt.  The second cofounder, Doug Servet, is a Rhode Island College senior majoring in business management. The third member of the team is Susy Redser, who has been coding for only 18 months, but has already released her first iPhone and Android app. All three cofounders were childhood friends.;2
FQ;2;Fo; Can I hear more about Michael's startup?;Michael attempted his first startup while still in college. xShirt let people submit ideas for designs for tshirts and people in the community could vote on them. The company pilot tested a site, but school work and large academic time commitments ultimately forced xShirt to be shut down.
Q;3;Fo; What is the Equity Split?; Michael, the CEO, owns 50% of the company as he came up with the concept for Brush.io and agreed to fund the first $50,000 worth of expenses. Doug and Susy, the other two cofounders, each own 25%.
Q;4;Id; How was the idea conceived?; Michael came up with the idea after taking his little brother to the dentist to replace his 4th cavity. Michael's little brother, James, has an awful habit of forgetting to brush his teeth altogether. Even when he does brush, it never lasts more than 25-30 seconds (way below the recommended 2 minutes). Michael asked his dentist if a lot of children have cavities, to which he replied, "half of all kids between 12 and 15 have a cavity!" Michael instantly knew better technology could help solve this problem.
Q;5;Id; How does the product work?; Brush.io is a toothbrush with several sensors that can record the pressure applied to the teeth, the region of the mouth you are brushing, and the time brushed. These results are automatically synced to your smartphone, where you can chart your brushing habits over time and compare to dentist standards.
Q;6;Id; How far along is the idea?; Brush.io has a series of wireframes for the application, and they have recently contacted a mechanical engineering firm to help build and design the toothbrush. The engineering firm quoted them for upwards of $100,000 to complete the project, which is why Brush.io is looking to raise additional funding.
Q;7;Id; Time to develop prototype?; Brush.io estimates the product can be prototyped and tested in 14-16 months.
Q;8;Id; Why hasn't it been done before?; Toothbrushes with sensors have existed for have a half a decade, but not until recently have children largely adopted the use of smartphones. The viability of this idea was not possible until children were able to record their own brushing habits.
Q;9;Id; What is the problem?; More than one-fourth of children between ages two and five suffer from tooth decay in the U.S. Better brushing habits can dramatically reduce this statistic and keep kids healthier. Brush.io has a solution to do precisely that.
Q;10;Ma; Who are the competitors?; The only other direct competitor is a startup that recently launched two months ago, that offers a app-connected toothbrush. However, they focus on the data analytics. Our product is geared towards children and has the necessary gameification elements to make it addictive.
Q;11;Ma; Any indirect competitors?; Oral B and Crest both offer a sensor toothbrush that has several lights to indicate a great brushing job. They have yet to introduce any toothbrush connected to an app though.
Q;12;Ma; What is the market size?; Currently, the United States alone spends $2.3 billion dollars on oral care products, and over $800 million on toothbrushes alone. If we can get just 1% of that market, we will have revenues in excess of $80 million / year.
Q;13;Ma; Who has the major market share?; Colgate is the leader at 54%, while Dabur is at 14.3%, and HUL is 21%;
Q;14;Ma; How does Brush.io want to enter the market?; To begin, Brush.io wants to sell its product directly online to minimize end user costs. 

#QuestionValues
#v;questionid,questionvalue

V;1;6
V;2;3
V;3;2
V;4;0
V;5;6
V;6;8
V;7;6
V;8;9
V;9;8
V;10;7
V;11;2
V;12;4
V;13;1
V;14;3


